{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.18362}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Salesforce admin interview questions and answers\par
Salesforce admin interview questions and answers.\par
\par
Here is list of all Salesforce admin interview questions:\par
\par
What is Salesforce?\par
What is Cloud computing?\par
What is CRM?\par
What are some CRM provider\par
What are different types of cloud computing?\par
What is PaaS?\par
What is SaaS?\par
What is IaaS?\par
What are different Salesforce Editions?\par
What is difference between Salesforce.com and Force.com?\par
What is Database.com?\par
What is App in Salesforce?\par
What is an object in Salesforce?\par
Different types of object in Salesforce.com?\par
How many relationship types are in Salesforce?\par
What is Master-detail  relationship?\par
What is Many-to-many relationship?\par
What is External lookup?\par
What is Indirect lookup?\par
What is Hierarchical relationship?\par
What is a roll-up summary field?\par
What are different Levels of data access in Salesforce?\par
What is Organization-wide defaults?\par
What is role hierarchy?\par
What are the difference between a Role and Profile?\par
What are Sharing Rules?\par
What is Manual sharing?\par
What is Profile?\par
What are standard profiles?\par
What is Permission Set?\par
What is \ldblquote View all\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Modify all\rdblquote  permission?\par
Is it possible to restrict permission for users using permission set?\par
If a user does not have access to a specific record type, will they be able to see the records that have that record type?\par
What are Salesforce Reports?\par
What are the different Report Formats?\par
What is Tabular Report?\par
What is Summary Report?\par
What is Matrix Report?\par
What is Joined Report?\par
What is Conditional Highlighting in Salesforce report?\par
What is Bucket Field?\par
Which field type does Bucketing field support?\par
What are Dashboards?\par
What are the different Dashboard Component?\par
What is Workflow?\par
What are the types of Workflow actions?\par
What is Time-dependent Workflow?\par
What is Approval Process?\par
What are Assignment Rules?\par
What are Queues?\par
What are Auto-Response Rules?\par
What is Escalation Rules?\par
What is Chatter in Salesforce?\par
 \par
\par
Here is list of all Salesforce admin interview questions and answers:\par
\par
CRM and Cloud Computing basics Salesforce admin interview questions\par
\par
What is Salesforce?\par
Salesforce is the world\rquote s #1 customer relationship management (CRM) platform. Salesforce provides cloud-based, CRM applications for sales, service, marketing, and more.\par
\par
Salesforce has essentially changed how enterprise software is delivered and used. Its software is cloud-based and hence doesn\rquote t need IT experts to set up anything. Salesforce has defined the ideal way as how to connect with customers. Building meaningful and lasting bond with the customers, identifying their needs, address problems faster and deploy apps that are customer focused is all possible through Salesforce.\par
\par
Salesforce Technologies is one of the leading and very hot Technology in IT industry. Through Salesforce.com Technology thousands of Job opportunity are created for Salesforce developers and Salesforce Administration Job Seekers. As per Forbes magazine, nearly 55% of enterprises predict cloud computing will enable new business model in three years. So Salesforce is one of the Cloud Computing Technology which have bright future in the upcoming years. Salesforce provides different enterprise cloud computing applications to all size industries and businesses.\par
\par
Salesforce applications are provided on subscription basis primarily through direct sales effort and indirectly through partners.\par
\par
What is Cloud computing?\par
Cloud computing is a kind of outsourcing of computer programs. Using cloud computing, users are able to access software and applications from wherever they are; the computer programs are being hosted by an outside party and reside in the cloud. This means that users do not have to worry about things such as storage and power, they can simply enjoy the end result.\par
\par
Cloud computing is shared pools of configurable computer system resources and higher-level services that can be rapidly provisioned with minimal management effort, often over the Internet. Cloud computing relies on sharing of resources to achieve coherence and economies of scale, similar to a public utility.\par
\par
What is CRM?\par
CRM means \ldblquote Customer Relationship Management \ldblquote . We can understand from the full form where CRM is an application used to automate Sales and marketing functions by a using a Software called CRM Software. By using CRM Software every Company / Organization plans to increase their revenues and profits. This strategy of increasing revenue is done mainly by attracting Customers, clients, Sales etc.\par
\par
Salesforce Admin Interview questions\par
Salesforce Admin Interview questions\par
\par
More Salesforce admin interview questions\par
What are some CRM provider\par
Salesforce CRM.\par
Microsoft Dynamics CRM.\par
Oracle CRM.\par
SAP CRM.\par
Sage CRM.\par
NetSuite CRM.\par
Oracle CRM on Demand.\par
SugarCRM.\par
 \par
\par
What are different types of cloud computing?\par
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)\par
Software as a Service (SaaS)\par
Platform as a Service (PaaS)\par
 \par
\par
What is PaaS?\par
Platform as a Service (PaaS)\par
\par
The branch of cloud computing that allows users to develop, run, and manage applications without having to get caught up in code, storage, infrastructure and so on.\par
\par
There are several types of PaaS. Every PaaS option is either public, private, or a hybrid mix of the two. Public PaaS is hosted in the cloud, and its infrastructure is managed by the provider. Private PaaS, on the other hand, is housed in onsite servers or private networks and is maintained by the user. Hybrid PaaS uses elements from both public and private and is capable of executing applications from multiple cloud infrastructures.\par
\par
What is SaaS?\par
Software as a Service (SaaS)\par
\par
Using the cloud, software such as an internet browser or application is able to become a usable tool.\par
\par
What is IaaS?\par
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)\par
\par
A third party hosts elements of infrastructure, such as hardware, software, servers, and storage, also providing backup, security, and maintenance.\par
\par
What are different Salesforce Editions?\par
Essentials: Designed for small businesses that want to get started with a CRM system quickly. It includes intuitive walkthroughs and a setup assistant to get started, an easy-to-use UI, and administration tools to customize your deployment as you grow.\par
Professional: Designed for businesses requiring full-featured CRM functionality. It includes straightforward and easy-to-use customization, integration, and administration tools to facilitate any small to midsize deployment.\par
Enterprise: Meets the needs of large and complex businesses. It gives you advanced customization and administration tools, in addition to all the functionality available in Professional Edition, that can support large-scale deployments. Enterprise Edition also includes access to Salesforce APIs, so you can easily integrate with back-office systems.\par
Unlimited: Maximizes your success and extends it across the entire enterprise through the Lightning Platform. It gives you new levels of platform flexibility for managing and sharing all your information on demand. Includes all Enterprise Edition functionality, Premier Support, full mobile access, unlimited custom apps, increased storage limits, and other features.\par
Developer: Provides access to the Lightning Platform and APIs. It lets developers extend Salesforce, integrate with other applications, and develop new tools and applications. Developer Edition also provides access to many of the features available in Enterprise Edition.\par
What is difference between Salesforce.com and Force.com?\par
Salesforce.com and fore.com are relatively same but they are different in their functionality. Salesforce.com is used to develop CRM functionality based application where force.com is used to customize our data model, business logic and User interface.\par
\par
What is Database.com?\par
Database.com is a type of service provided by Salesforce.com to enhance the power of Salesforce.com CRM applications. Database.com provides \ldblquote Data as a Service\rdblquote  to subscribers.\par
\par
What is App in Salesforce?\par
App means an Application. In Salesforce an Application consists a group of tabs which are designed to work as a single function. We have number of applications in Salesforce.com some of them are sales, marketing, chatter, site.com, work.com etc.\par
\par
We can create new application and also customization for the existing apps in Salesforce.com. To create new app in sfdc go to Setup=>Build=>Create=>App.\par
\par
Fields and Objects Salesforce Admin Interview questions\par
What is an object in Salesforce?\par
An Objects is represented as a database table which stores organization data . Objects consists of set of fields and we store data against that field. To view data Salesforce provided  TABS.\par
\par
To create custom fields go to Setup=>Build=>Create=>Object.\par
\par
Different types of object in Salesforce.com? \par
In Salesforce.com we have two types of objects. They are\par
\par
Standard Objects :- Standard objects are called so because they are created and provided by Salesforce.com.\par
Custom Objects :- Custom objects are those which are created by an User in salesforce.com.\par
 \par
\par
How many relationship types are in Salesforce?\par
Master-detail \par
Many-to-many\par
Lookup\par
External lookup\par
Indirect lookup\par
Hierarchical\par
 \par
\par
What is Master-detail  relationship?\par
Master-detail closely links objects together such that the master record controls certain behaviors of the detail and subdetail record. For example, you can define a two-object master-detail relationship, such as Account\f1\emdash Expense Report, that extends the relationship to subdetail records, such as Account\emdash Expense Report\emdash Expense Line Item. You can then perform operations across the master\emdash detail\emdash subdetail relationship.\par
\par
What is Many-to-many relationship?\par
Many-to-many You can use master-detail relationships to model many-to-many relationships between any two objects. A many-to-many relationship allows each record of one object to be linked to multiple records from another object and vice versa. For example, you create a custom object called \ldblquote Bug\rdblquote  that relates to the standard case object such that a bug could be related to multiple cases and a case could also be related to multiple bugs.\par
\par
Lookup Links two objects together. Lookup relationships are similar to master-detail relationships, except they do not support sharing or roll-up summary fields. With a lookup relationship, you can:\par
\par
Link two different objects.\par
Link an object with itself (with the exception of the user object; see Hierarchical). For example, you might want to link a custom object called \ldblquote Bug\rdblquote  with itself to show how two different bugs are related to the same problem.\par
 \par
\par
What is External lookup? \par
External lookup An external lookup relationship links a child standard, custom, or external object to a parent external object. When you create an external lookup relationship field, the standard External ID field on the parent external object is matched against the values of the child\rquote s external lookup relationship field. External object field values come from an external data source.\par
\par
What is Indirect lookup?\par
Indirect lookup An indirect lookup relationship links a child external object to a parent standard or custom object. When you create an indirect lookup relationship field on an external object, you specify the parent object field and the child object field to match and associate records in the relationship. Specifically, you select a custom unique, external ID field on the parent object to match against the child\rquote s indirect lookup relationship field, whose values come from an external data source.\par
\par
What is Hierarchical relationship?\par
Hierarchical A special lookup relationship available for only the user object. It lets users use a lookup field to associate one user with another that does not directly or indirectly refer to itself. For example, you can create a custom hierarchical relationship field to store each user\rquote s direct manager.\par
\par
For more details, please refer to this link Object Relationships Overview\par
\par
 \par
\par
What is a roll-up summary field?\par
A roll-up summary field calculates values from related records, such as those in a related list. You can create a roll-up summary field to display a value in a master record based on the values of fields in a detail record. The detail record must be related to the master through a master-detail relationship. For example, you want to display the sum of invoice amounts for all related invoice custom object records in an account\rquote s Invoices related list. You can display this total in a custom account field called Total Invoice Amount. \par
\par
For more details refer official link roll-up summary field\par
\par
Security related Salesforce Admin Interview Questions\par
What are different Levels of data access in Salesforce?\par
Organization level security\par
For your whole org, you can maintain a list of authorized users, set password policies, and limit logins to certain hours and locations.\par
\par
Object level security\par
Access to object-level data is the simplest thing to control. By setting permissions on a particular type of object, you can prevent a group of users from creating, viewing, editing, or deleting any records of that object. For example, you can use object permissions to ensure that interviewers can view positions and job applications but not edit or delete them.\par
\par
Field level security\par
You can restrict access to certain fields, even if a user has access to the object. For example, you can make the salary field in a position object invisible to interviewers but visible to hiring managers and recruiters.\par
\par
Record level security\par
You can allow particular users to view an object, but then restrict the individual object records they\rquote re allowed to see. For example, an interviewer can see and edit her own reviews, but not the reviews of other interviewers. You can manage record-level access in these four ways.\par
\par
Organization-wide defaults\par
Role hierarchies\par
Sharing rules\par
Manual sharing\par
 \par
\par
What is Organization-wide defaults?\par
Organization Wide Defaults(OWD) in salesforce is the baseline level of access that the most restricted user should have. Organizational Wide Defaults are used to restrict access. You grant access through other means like(sharing rules, Role Hierarchy, Sales Teams and Account teams, manual sharing, Apex Sharing ). In simple words Organization Wide Defaults(OWD) specify the default level of access users have to each other\rquote s records.\par
\par
For more details please level to below post Organization Wide Defaults(OWD) in salesforce\par
\par
What is role hierarchy?\par
It give access for users higher in the hierarchy to all records owned by users below them in the hierarchy. Role hierarchies don\rquote t have to match your organization chart exactly. Instead, each role in the hierarchy should represent a level of data access that a user or group of users needs.\par
\par
What are the difference between a Role and Profile?\par
Roles are one of the ways you can control access to records. They also impact reports (e.g. \ldblquote My Teams\rdblquote  filter). Roles come into play if your security model (OWDs) are set to private.\par
\par
Profiles help determine record privileges. Assuming the User can see the record, Profiles determine what the User can do, view or edit on that record. Profiles control other system privileges as well (mass email, export data, etc)\par
\par
In simple words, Roles are one of the ways you can control access to records and Profiles determine what the User can do, view or edit on that record.\par
\par
What are Sharing Rules?\par
Sharing Rules are automatic exceptions to organization-wide defaults for particular groups of users, so they can get to records they don\rquote t own or can\rquote t normally see. Sharing rules, like role hierarchies, are only used to give additional users access to records. They can\rquote t be stricter than your organization-wide default settings.\par
\par
What is Manual sharing?\par
It allows owners of particular records to share them with other users. Although manual sharing isn\rquote t automated like org-wide sharing settings, role hierarchies, or sharing rules, it can be useful in some situations, such as when a recruiter going on vacation needs to temporarily assign ownership of a job application to someone else.\par
\par
What is Profile?\par
Each user has a single profile that controls which data and features that user has access to. A profile is a collection of settings and permissions. Profile settings determine which data the user can see, and permissions determine what the user can do with that data.\par
The settings in a user\rquote s profile determine whether she can see a particular app, tab, field, or record type.\par
The permissions in a user\rquote s profile determine whether she can create or edit records of a given type, run reports, and customize the app.\par
Profiles usually match up with a user\rquote s job function (for example, system administrator, recruiter, or hiring manager), but you can have profiles for anything that makes sense for your Salesforce org. A profile can be assigned to many users, but a user can have only one profile at a time.\par
\par
What are standard profiles?\par
Read Only\par
Standard User\par
Marketing User\par
Contract Manager\par
System Administrator\par
 \par
\par
What is Permission Set?\par
A permission set is a collection of settings and permissions that give users access to various tools and functions. The settings and permissions in permission sets are also found in profiles, but permission sets extend users\rquote  functional access without changing their profiles.\par
Permission sets make it easy to grant access to the various apps and custom objects in your org, and to take away access when it\rquote s no longer needed.\par
\par
Users can have only one profile, but they can have multiple permission sets.\par
\par
What is \ldblquote View all\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Modify all\rdblquote  permission?\par
View all and Modify all permissions are usually given to system administrator. When you grant \ldblquote View All\rdblquote  or \ldblquote Modify All\rdblquote  for an object on a profile or permission set, you grant any associated users access to all records of that object regardless of the sharing and security settings.\par
\par
In essence, the \ldblquote View All\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Modify All\rdblquote  permissions ignore the sharing model, role hierarchy, and sharing rules that the \ldblquote Create,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Read,\rdblquote  \ldblquote Edit,\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Delete\rdblquote  permissions respect. Furthermore, \ldblquote Modify All\rdblquote  also gives a user the ability to mass transfer, mass update, and mass delete records of that specific object, and approve such records even if the user is not a designated approver.\par
\par
These tasks are typically reserved for administrators, but because \ldblquote View All\rdblquote  and \ldblquote Modify All\rdblquote  let us selectively override the system, responsibilities that are usually reserved for the administrator can be delegated to other users in a highly controlled fashion.\par
\par
 \par
\par
Is it possible to restrict permission for users using permission set?\par
No, Permission Set always extends the permission. It does not restrict permission to users.\par
If a user does not have access to a specific record type, will they be able to see the records that have that record type?\par
Yes, Record type controls only visibility of record on UI but not its access to users. If user does not have access to record type then user will not be able to create records for that record type using UI. But user will we able to see records if they have appropriate permission to do so.\par
For more details about security questions for Salesforce admin interview questions, refer to my previous post Salesforce security interview questions\par
\par
Report and Dashboard related Salesforce Admin Interview Questions\par
What are Salesforce Reports?\par
A Reports is a set of records displayed in the form of rows and columns.\par
Reports data can be filtered, grouped, and displayed graphically as a chart. Reports are stored in Folder \endash  which controls who has access.\par
\par
What are the different Report Formats?\par
Tabular Reports, Summary Reports, Matrix Reports, Joined Reports.\par
\par
What is Tabular Report?\par
It is the simplest and fastest report formats. It displays the rows as records and fields are listed as columns just like a spreadsheet. It supports sorting of records.\par
\par
What is Summary Report?\par
This report allows the user to group rows of data, summarize the field value which also supports sorting and display subtotals.\par
\par
What is Matrix Report?\par
In this report, records are summarized in a grid format. It allows the records to be grouped by both columns and rows.\par
\par
What is Joined Report?\par
In this type of report, User can create multiple report blocks that provide different different views of your data. In this format of report, we organize the data in the form of block. You can add upto 5 blocks in a single report. Each block is defined as a Sub-report(Report Type). It can have its own field, columns, sorting and filtering.\par
\par
What is Conditional Highlighting in Salesforce report?\par
Conditional Highlighting is a powerful way to show values in report within given\par
limits. Using Conditional Highlighting, We can specify colours for different ranges of values in reports.\par
\par
What is Bucket Field?\par
Bucketing lets you quickly categorize report records, without having to create a formula or a custom field.\par
\par
Which field type does Bucketing field support?\par
It supports the field type of Picklist, Number, Text.\par
\par
What are Dashboards?\par
Salesforce Dashboard is the visual representation of snapshots that are generated from Salesforce reports data. Using Salesforce Dashboard components, you can convert business requirements in Graphical representation using Sales force reports. Like reports, Dashboard are also stored in Folders.\par
\par
What are the different Dashboard Component?\par
Scatter Chart, Line Chart, Funnel Chart, Vertical Bar Chart, Donut Chart, Horizontal Bar Chart, Pie Chart, Gauge, Metric, Table, Visual force Pages.\par
\par
Other Salesforce admin interview questions\par
What is Workflow? \par
Workflow rules are the automated process used in business process to send Email Alerts, Assign a Task, Update a field on rule criteria or action based criteria requirements.\par
\par
What are the types of Workflow actions?\par
Task \endash  Assign a Task\par
Email Alert: Send an Email.\par
Field update: Update a Field.\par
Outbound Message: Send an Outbound Message to External System.\par
What is Time-dependent Workflow?\par
The workflow that are scheduled to happen at a later time.\par
\par
What is Approval Process?\par
Approval Process are used in the business process to Approve or Reject the record.\par
It involves Approval or Rejection of records, where one person creates the record and\par
submits that record for Approval.\par
\par
What are Assignment Rules?\par
Assignment Rules automatically assign incoming Leads & Cases to specific agents so that the right people work on the right leads and cases.\par
\par
What are Queues?\par
Queues allow the group of users to manage a shared workload more efficiently It prioritize your support team\rquote s workload by creating lists from which specific agents can jump in to solve certain types of cases.\par
\par
What are Auto-Response Rules?\par
Auto Response Rules Automatically send personalized email templates for new cases and new leads from your website.\par
\par
What is Escalation Rules?\par
Escalation Rules ,  Automatically escalate cases to the right people when the cases aren\rquote t solved by a certain time.\par
\par
What is Chatter in Salesforce?\par
Chatter is a Salesforce real-time collaboration application that lets your users work together, talk to each other, and share information.\f0\par
}
 